if you want to find cherry-tree lane all you have to do is ask the policeman at the cross-roads .
he will push his helmet slightly to one side , scratch his head thoughtfully , and then he will point his huge white-gloved finger and say : " first to your right , second to your left , sharp right again , and you 're there .
good-morning . "
and sure enough , if you follow his directions exactly , you will be there -- right in the middle of cherry-tree lane , where the houses run down one side and the park runs down the other and the cherry-trees go dancing right down the middle .
if you are looking for number seventeen -- and it is more than likely that you will be , for this book is all about that particular house -- you will very soon find it .
to begin with , it is the smallest house in the lane .
and besides that , it is the only one that is rather dilapidated and needs a coat of paint .
but mr. banks , who owns it , said to mrs. banks that she could have either a nice , clean , comfortable house or four children .
but not both , for he could n't afford it .
and after mrs. banks had given the matter some consideration she came to the conclusion that she would rather have jane , who was the eldest , and michael , who came next , and john and barbara , who were twins and came last of all .
so it was settled , and that was how the banks family came to live at number seventeen , with mrs. brill to cook for them , and ellen to lay the tables , and robertson ay to cut the lawn and clean the knives and polish the shoes and , as mr. banks always said , " to waste his time and my money . "
and , of course , besides these there was katie nanna , who does n't really deserve to come into the book at all because , at the time i am speaking of , she had just left number seventeen .
" without by your leave or a word of warning .
and what am i to do ? "
said mrs. banks .
" advertise , my dear , " said mr. banks , putting on his shoes .
" and i wish robertson ay would go without a word of warning , for he has again polished one boot and left the other untouched .
i shall look very lopsided . "
" that , " said mrs. banks , " is not of the least importance .
you have n't told me what i 'm to do about katie nanna . "
" i do n't see how you can do anything about her since she has disappeared , " replied mr. banks , " but if it were me -- i mean i -- well , i should get somebody to put in the morning paper the news that jane and michael and john and barbara banks ( to say nothing of their mother ) require the best possible nannie at the lowest possible wage and at once .
then i should wait and watch for the nannies to queue up outside the front gate , and i should get very cross with them for holding up the traffic and making it necessary for me to give the policeman a shilling for putting him to so much trouble .
now i must be off .
whew , it 's as cold as the north pole .
which way is the wind blowing ? "
and as he said that , mr. banks popped his head out of the window and looked down the lane to admiral boom 's house at the corner .
this was the grandest house in the lane , and the lane was very proud of it because it was built exactly like a ship .
there was a flagstaff in the garden , and on the roof was a gilt weathercock shaped like a telescope .
" ha ! "
said mr. banks , drawing in his head very quickly .
" admiral 's telescope says east wind .
i thought as much .
there is frost in my bones .
i shall wear two overcoats . "
and he kissed his wife absentmindedly on one side of her nose and waved to the children and went away to the city .
now , the city was a place where mr. banks went every day -- except sundays , of course , and bank holidays -- and while he was there he sat on a large chair in front of a large desk and made money .
all day long he worked , cutting out pennies and shillings and half-crowns and threepenny-bits .
and he brought them home with him in his little black bag .
sometimes he would give some to jane and michael for their money-boxes , and when he could n't spare any he would say , " the bank is broken , " and they would know he had n't made much money that day .
well , mr. banks went off with his black bag , and mrs. banks went into the drawing-room and sat there all day long writing letters to the papers and begging them to send some nannies to her at once as she was waiting ; and upstairs in the nursery , jane and michael watched at the window and wondered who would come .
they were glad katie nanna had gone , for they had never liked her .
she was old and fat and smelt of barley-water .
anything , they thought , would be better than katie nanna -- if not much better .
when the afternoon began to die away behind the park , mrs. brill and ellen came to give them their supper and to bath the twins .
and after supper jane and michael sat at the window watching for mr. banks to come home , and listening to the sound of the east wind blowing through the naked branches of the cherry-trees in the lane .
the trees themselves , turning and bending in the half light , looked as though they had gone mad and were dancing their roots out of the ground .
" there he is ! "
said michael , pointing suddenly to a shape that banged heavily against the gate .
jane peered through the gathering darkness .
" that 's not daddy , " she said .
" it 's somebody else . "
then the shape , tossed and bent under the wind , lifted the latch of the gate , and they could see that it belonged to a woman , who was holding her hat on with one hand and carrying a bag in the other .
as they watched , jane and michael saw a curious thing happen .
as soon as the shape was inside the gate the wind seemed to catch her up into the air and fling her at the house .
it was as though it had flung her first at the gate , waited for her to open it , and then had lifted and thrown her , bag and all , at the front door .
the watching children heard a terrific bang , and as she landed the whole house shook .
" how funny !
i 've never seen that happen before , " said michael .
" let 's go and see who it is ! "
said jane , and taking michael 's arm she drew him away from the window , through the nursery and out on to the landing .
from there they always had a good view of anything that happened in the front hall .
presently they saw their mother coming out of the drawing-room with a visitor following her .
jane and michael could see that the newcomer had shiny black hair -- " rather like a wooden dutch doll , " whispered jane .
and that she was thin , with large feet and hands , and small , rather peering blue eyes .
" you 'll find that they are very nice children , " mrs. banks was saying .
michael 's elbow gave a sharp dig at jane 's ribs .
" and that they give no trouble at all , " continued mrs. banks uncertainly , as if she herself did n't really believe what she was saying .
they heard the visitor sniff as though she did n't either .
" now , about reference -- " mrs. banks went on .
" oh , i make it a rule never to give references , " said the other firmly .
mrs. banks stared .
" but i thought it was usual , " she said .
" i mean -- i understood people always did . "
" a very old-fashioned idea , to my mind , " jane and michael heard the stern voice say .
" very old-fashioned .
quite out of date , as you might say . "
now , if there was one thing mrs. banks did not like , it was to be thought old-fashioned .
she just could n't bear it .
so she said quickly : " very well , then .
we wo n't bother about them .
i only asked , of course , in case you -- er -- required it .
the nursery is upstairs -- " and she led the way towards the staircase , talking all the time , without stopping once .
and because she was doing that mrs. banks did not notice what was happening behind her , but jane and michael , watching from the top landing , had an excellent view of the extraordinary thing the visitor now did .
certainly she followed mrs. banks upstairs , but not in the usual way .
with her large bag in her hands she slid gracefully up the banisters , and arrived at the landing at the same time as mrs. banks .
such a thing , jane and michael knew , had never been done before .
down , of course , for they had often done it themselves .
but up -- never !
they gazed curiously at the strange new visitor 
